#Day 1

In *Deathbrowsing*, I started by writing a bunch of dialogue with an [editor](https://www.moreofless.co.uk/earnestwrite) that wouldn't let me delete or edit anything. John Cleese's mother asked John to kill her, and things got a bit silly, but it was boring in the end. I deleted it all and started over. This time, I had John Cleese cheerily shop for his own death in a nice hipster store. This premise made me laugh and focused the entire story on one character. The lesson: *have a strong premise*. 

In *The Optimizer*, I started with the premise that Elon Musk was a supervillain. I settled on the idea that he should ironically be a 'paper-clip maximizer' (a nightmare artificial intelligence thought experiment). I then came up with a dramatic ending line, "Tell Bezos that I'm going to enjoy turning him into paper clips." The story flowed fairly easily, and I knew I simply had to set it up, so I could manage to have a single, short paragraph to show the underbelly of the Gigafactory, and Musk's true intent. This one was really fun to write. The lesson: *With a strong ending, the beginning and the middle are easy to write. They just have to set up the ending.*

So, it seems that having a strong, memorable premise is key, and it can help to have a strong ending written at the start too. Stephen King says he would hate to start with the ending, because, for him, the fun of writing is finding out what the characters are going to do. So, I'll try his character-first approach later. 

In *Cold Feet*, I started by listing various memories, and trying to put them into a plot structure first. I started with my arrival, continued to my time in the hostel, and then ended with my time outside the hostel. I didn't plan things in great detail, so I spent the bulk of my time on the first part, and had to shorten everything else. I think this made the first part seem more real. The moments were more vivid, but there wasn't really a story, and certainly not a memorable ending. The lesson: *Strong scenes or moments can draw from real life, although this doesn't necessarily lead to a great story overall.*