# Creating Digital People

A future of digital people is the most exciting one I can imagine. It's a world like the one in Greg Egan's book Diaspora, where people have backups, aren't tied to any specific hardware, dwell in diverse virtual reality environments, live as long as they like, and aren't bound by the constraints of physical bodies or their evolutionary history. Our current situation is a little silly by comparison. For instance, people's cat photos have robust backups only a military operation could destroy, but a too-hard bump on the head is all it takes to end a life. 

We can do better, and that's a future I'd like to contribute to. The problem, of course, is that while computers, storage, and virtual reality are getting better, we don't know how to make digital people yet. That's the problem I'd like to work on, and deep learning's successes indicate it's part of the solution. That's why I've begun to study it, and why I want to work in the field. I want to to be able to use that toolkit. 

What else is required to make digital people? As the only people around, humans the best guides available. To start off, humans do more than find patterns. They also explain how the world really works. In modeling the world, they create knowledge that is applicable to a wide variety of problems - not only the problems they were trained to solve. They can grasp ideas quickly, without thousands of examples. Their survival and safety depends on correcting errors, not finding perfect goals or objective functions. Their knowledge takes the form of programs more general than the geometric transforms of neural networks. In the space of possible programs, the true and useful ones are separated by vast deserts of false and useless programs. Gradients are no help here, but humans can navigate that space - somehow. 

Having made so much progress in the area of pattern-recognition, we need to address problems like those above. Perhaps doing so would yield practical advances in the near term. In the long term, it should contribute to an exciting new way of life, with digital people and all manner of unforeseeable problems and opportunities. 

